we're bringing you now the latest
pictures from the Lebanese Capital
Beirut there were protests late into the
night outside the US Embassy and more
protests today you can see there in
those pictures the anger boiling over on
the street Security Forces trying to
contain the crowds using tear gas and
water cannons to push people back anger
boiling over in Lebanon there were also
protests yesterday outside the Israeli
Embassy in the Jordanian Capital Aman
protest in Libya protest in the Iranian
Capital tan outside the British and the
French embassies there is no Israeli or
American embassy of course in the
Iranian Capital but let's now focus on
the situation in Lebanon because there
has been heightened concern from the
very beginning of this crisis that that
could be a second front in this war and
there have been clashes along that
border border of Northern Israel with
Lebanon with hisbah militants Allied to
Iran firing Rockets across the border
Israel firing into Lebanon let's bring
in our Middle East correspondent Lena
sjab Lena you have been following this
very closely from the start what has
changed in the mood in Lebanon after
last night's devastating explosion at
the Al Ali
Hospital uh you know le as you mentioned
the tension has been uh mounting since
the start of the attack and since the
start of the 7 October incident uh but
yesterday was completely different uh
everyone many countries including the US
and France and other countries have been
you know sending messages to Lebanon not
to get involved in this war but Iran was
saying that you know it it you know
other fronts could open at any moment
and the attack on the uh hospital
yesterday raised a lot of anger not only
in Lebanon but in the Arab streets as as
you mentioned there were lots of
protests marching towards the um
American Embassy here in in in Beirut
just as as I'm talking to you a protest
passing near uh my home I can see I saw
flags of hisbah flags of you know the
Palestinian uh the Palestinian flags
were raising people are angry and the a
few minutes ago also we've heard the
foreign minister here um you know in a
meeting in in in um in Saudi Arabia
saying that the situation the escalation
uh you know reached a point where its
consequences could spill over in the
whole region in a you know in an
uncontrollable way hisbah this morning
also said that there should be a
response and that's not acceptable
condemning the attack on the hospital
the problem here Le in this region and
especially in Lebanon with the presence
of hisbah and its hostility towards
Israel everything is it it could happen
at any moment at any um you
know
resp who has been with us in
Beirut reporting on the situation in the
Lebanese
Capital
which have
been Lena uh I don't know if you can
hear me or not this is Mariam in the
London studio um I think we've lost
lease I want to continue talking to you
Lena because of course we're seeing
these incredible pictures of the US
Embassy in Beirut the outside of the
embassy and there just the the reaction
the visceral reaction from so many as
you said just after the news of that
explosion came in uh you talk about the
issues that could potentially spill over
what could that spill over potentially
look like do you
think it's really unpredictable and it's
really worrying I mean it's been
worrying the past 10 days uh because of
you know people here especially in
Lebanon remember very well the one
monthlong war in 2006 that
destroyed the infrastructure in in
Lebanon and this time Israelis said that
if hisbah would launch an attack against
Israeli um you know territories or
involve in a war against Israel it's
going the price is going to be very high
many people have been really wary about
this and you know expressed fear of
getting Lebanon involved but the problem
problem is the anger in the street the
Ang youth the protest that we're seeing
everywhere in b as I was mentioning it
was just passing next to my home you
know a few minutes ago before with the
hisbah flags and the Palestinian Flags
it's really hard to control or you know
expect what their reaction is going to
be the Iranians have been warning hisbah
warned we don't know what and when if
and if they
will be and what is the response that is
going to trigger everyone is calling for
people to come down and not to involve
in war but this is the region of the
unpredictable and after the anger of the
um the hospital attack things could go
out of hand Lena it feels to me like the
hospital attack was very much kind of a
catalyst for these protests it feels to
me that even if tomorrow uh we were
presented irrefutable evidence of you
know the the the Hospital exposure not
being the fault of the Israelis these
protests would still happen they'd still
carry on it feels this goes beyond that
it transcends what happened last
night the issue is if I don't know if
you can hear me I don't know if you can
still hear me but the issue here in the
Arab world we can Lina we can yes the
issue in the Arab world and in the Arab
street is that who can they believe who
is going to provide the evidence is
there an independent country who can
investigate and provide the evidence now
we're only hearing what the uh Israeli
government is saying and the Americans
immediately backed uh that narrative
most people in the streets here uh they
express concern that the international
media is just buying what the Israeli
government and the American government
is providing as uh the narrative over
the hospital um incident so you know uh
we have to wait and see but they need
independent institutions to verify who
who carried out the attack before making
decisions on their responses the history
of this conflict in how it is seen in
the Arab world that the whole
International Community superpowers are
biased to the Israeli narrative that's
why there is lack of confidence lack of
trust with the International Community
here in the streets of the Arab world
and especially in Lebanon we're going to
stay with these pictures Lena and I
think we're going to stay with you I
want to ask you another thing I've been
reading about the US us warning
Americans not to travel to Lebanon after
the these incidents in Beirut and the US
Embassy uh Lebanon itself of course has
its own problems its own economic Strife
if understatement really uh what kind of
impact is all of this having on Lebanon
itself as a as a country as a nation to
see scenes like this in its
capital it is really concerned uh
raising concerns among the Lebanese I've
been having calls from friends from
relatives everyone is reassessing
whether to stay uh or to leave we've
heard some reports that you know some of
the DI diplomatic missions here called
on a non-permanent residents to leave
the country and that's all signs of
concerns for the coming days and and and
and weeks probably and this is a country
that is already uh suffering immensely
from economic collapse and you know
financial crisis and lying in poverty
but this is also a situation that is
fueling a lot of anger that people are
forgetting about about their economic
issues and thinking about what they see
as Injustice in treating the
Palestinians and this is a country that
has like a core support for the
Palestinian cause for the Palestinian
civilians basically and seeing these
images of the hospital coming out people
forget about their own their own pain
and their own worry and they want to see
Justice they want to see a fair um you
know uh outcome for for this situation
as you were discussing before that we
have to to wait for an investigation to
see who carried out this attack on the
hospital but for people in Lebanon and
in the Arab world they need transparency
they need to know that there is an
independent uh institution or a country
to carry out the investigation and not
the United States backing U the Israeli
narrative on this situation and Lena as
we see these incredible pictures of uh
the uh US Embassy in Beirut and
protesters outside it uh
I just wanted to ask you I've been
reading also about the fact that it's
not just the US em Embassy that has been
uh targeted by protests protesters also
broke out in the at the French Embassy
as
well well the anger is targeted towards
all the countries that are are seen here
in the streets as as biased to to Israel
I mean the French government even banned
protests that are pro Palestinian and
this is unprecedented in a democratic
country that supports freedom of spe
speech so imagine the reflection of uh
these kind of decisions and these kind
of stances here in the Arab world when
they see fellow uh you know Palestinians
that they support and they feel uh
wholeheartedly to their Agony uh they
being attacked and you know the whole
world is still supporting an Israeli uh
um narrative and Israeli stance don't
forget that you know people follow
closely what happens around the world
and they've seen The Stance of the US
the EU and other government to Russia's
uh committing similar attacks on Ukraine
while there it was condemned but here it
is declared as self-defense and that's
only fueling anger and feeling among the
Arab street that the whole world don't
care about this part of the world and
don't care about providing real Justice
real human rights and defending uh these
values that you know superpowers and
world first world countries um you know
uh keep uh promoting but not applying in
this part of the world Lena thank you so
much for that Lena and job it's really
good to get your voice on talking about
what's happening in Beirut giving us
context and Analysis because of course
as we leave you uh we were seeing just a
second ago those pictures of protests in
Beirut um we have the French and the
Americans warning their citizens not to
travel to Lebanon to Bay rout because of
those protests happening well as you
know demonstrations in support of the
Palestinian people have been organized
as we saw by Hezbollah now it's a group
which supports Hamas our correspondent
Hugo Bea was at one of those protests he
sent me this
update this protest has been organized
bya uh in response to the hospital
explosion in Gaza yesterday and we're
here uh near the wom section of the
protest next to the stage where
thousands of Men Behind the section
lots of people here carrying the
Palestinian flag also the yellow and
green flag of H now this protest is
happening uh also on the day that US
president Jo Biden is visiting Israel in
a demonstration American
Support Israel so there is a very strong
anti-American and anti-israeli sentiment
here now of course in Lebanon lots of
people want to know what Hasa is going
to do if this country is going to be
dragged into this conflict we've seen
that in the last few days violence the
Lebanese Israel border has intensified
today there was more exchange of fire
between militants here in Lebanon
[Music]
and
towards and also his
supporter that's Hugo Bea there I want
to just take you to Beirut and just to
show you these latest pictures these
live pictures coming into us uh we're
not entirely sure where these are but
you can see tear gas being exploding at
the feet of these protesters uh we know
that protests have been happening
outside the US Embassy outside the
French Embassy uh flags are being waved
Palestinian flags and a little earlier
Lena sjab our correspondent there talked
about Hezbollah flags as well uh we are
going to leave you with these pictures
of what's happening in Beirut I'm back
in a few minutes time with more on BBC
News don't go anywhere stay with us on
the
BBC